Filling out a world sheet can be done in one of two ways. You can faithfully recreate a [[Touchstone]] or you can use a [[World]] of your own devising. In either case, you will need to fill out the sheet with sensible values:
- [[Touchstone|Touchstones]]: List out pieces of media that are similar to the world you are creating. If the world sheet is for a [[Touchstone]] you should still list similar media such that players who haven't experienced it can have a better grasp of the world.
- [[Tick Length]] is how long you want turns of conflict to take. For a sword or gun fight a second is a reasonable value. This should be increased for vehicle and social combat.
- For [[Default Delay]] a value of 10 is reasonable for most games and makes it easy to know when a [[Character|Character's]] next turn is if they have default [[Speed]]. A higher value makes speed matter less and a lower value makes it matter more.
- The [[Experience Tracker|Group Experience]] value on the experience tracker is the starting [[Experience]] that will be available at [[Character Creation]]. I recommend 50 for characters of moderate competence.
- The [[Rubric]] is where you get to incentivise players to stay on the rails. Tailor the questions to the world or [[Story]]. Make sure each question can be answered with a simple yes or no.
- The [[Store]] is a list of goods and services with [[Prices]]. Price things as [[Prices|Free]], even if they aren't really if you won't want to keep track of them. Price things as cheap if the scarcity of those things is of some relevance to your story. Price things as [[Prices|Expensive]] if you want them to exist but don't want [[Player Character|Player Characters]] to have them. 
- You should put the [[Skills]] and [[Background|Backgrounds]] you have made and those from [[New Content Negotiation]] on this lists of approved skills and backgrounds on the world sheet.
- As you are building the world and as things get [[Veto|Vetoed]] you should update the list of [[Banned Content]] for this world. Time travel is one I usually put on here.
- At session 0 and as they come up you should add each player's [[Lines and Veils]] to the world sheet.
- The note on [[Safety]] tools is included at the bottom of the [[World Sheet]] to help remind everyone they are there. There is nothing to fill out unless you plan on using different safety tools.