This section will detail a system for long distance travel:
potential new terms: [[Rest]], fatigue
Desired outcome of this section is distance traveled per time
It will be necessary for the storyteller to set a typical travel speed.
It will be necessary for the storyteller to choose between grid or not.
Travel should also be kinda like downtime.
increase or decrease rest/fatigue?

this section should detail how you get from point a to point b in the world, what it costs, what you get, what happens along the way, and how fast this all happens.

so, traveling from point a to point b should take some number of days
one day per tile on the world map usually. 
what if a and b are adjacent? then you use hours as your timescale
what if they arent? you use days as your timescale

travel time, scale, cost, and representation should maybe handled in a separate section but [[Toolkit]] might be able to handle it.

---

there should maybe be a chance for things to happen while traveling?
time taken (fatigue gained/lost, resources gained/used, healing), distance traveled
time vs distance traveled
fatigue makes the ratio worse
sneaking makes the ratio worse
being hurt makes the ratio worse
carrying too much makes the ratio worse

I don't think I want to link bad stuff to travel specifically but I might leave it as an input to some of the random tables in the toolkit section. Speaking of, this section should be handled with a table generated by the toolkit section. moved.

---

you get fatigued from:
- something to do with rest i.e. not resting or having your rest interrupted.
- something to do with wounds i.e. getting wounds/doing stuff while wounded/having wounds

rejected per [[No Encumbrance System]] and the part of [[Narrated Scene]] where I determine I will be treating fatigue as a binary that gives 

----
Time Scales:
travel using downtime = measured in days and hours
rest = measured in hours
active = measured in minutes
combat = measured in second

handled by [[Scene]]

----

putting up fences and evaluating...

Evaluated. Most things copied out. New [[Travel]] section made. Original kept for legacy. [[Rejected]].