### Checks
When conflict occurs during roleplaying the fairest way to resolve it most times is by rolling a skill-check. A skill-check is where one of a character's skills is tested against some number of dice which represent the difficulty of the task. If the character's skill is greater than or equal to the sum of the dice then the character passes the skill-check. Usually this will also mean that whatever the character was attmepting to accomplish succeeds. If the dice are greater than the character's skill level the action fails and something bad might happen. The number of dice depends on the difficulty of the task. Flavor can influence difficulty.

#### Difficulty
The difficulty of a skill check can be modified by a number of things. A character's flavor, other characters, and the world itself can all cause a skill-check to become easier or harder. The storyteller decides if any of these things is meaningful enough to make the roll easy or hard.
```
easy    |   pass if skill >= 1d6
normal  |   pass if skill >= 2d6
hard    |   pass if skill >= 3d6
harder  |   pass if skill >= 4d6
etc.    |   pass if skill >= 5d6
```

#### Nested Checks
If a character is trying to do two things at once, juggling while doing a backflip for instance, just increase the difficulty. If a player is doing two things that are radically different, that is the apropriate time to make two skill checks. (Doing a backflip and casting a spell)

#### Progression
To level up a skill you need to pass skill checks with it. Whenever you pass a skill-check with a skill add one to that skill's experience. When the skill's experience is equal to it's level it levels up and the experience resets to zero. You can only level up a skill at level one by making the check easy.

#### Event Die
The storyteller can introduce the event die whenever they want. Basically when a check is rolled and additional d6 is rolled. If this d6 comes up 1 something bad might happen and if it comes up 6 something good might happen.

#### Gambits
Gambits are where you make a deal with the storyreller to modify the the difficulty of a check, the pass-effect, and the fail-effect. You might ask for something special to happen on a success in exchange for an increase in difficulty.

#### Magnitude of Success
If you ever need a magnitude of success for a roll, like damage or crafting, just roll a single d6 and use this chart.
```
1 pip   |   0%
2 pip   |   20%
3 pip   |   40%
4 pip   |   60%
5 pip   |   80%
6 pip   |   100%
```

#### Example
For example lets say John NPC character wants to do a backflip. The first thing John will do is look for a relevant skill on his character sheet. `Acrobatics`, `athletics`, `dexterity`, `phisique` or anything similar will work for this check. Lets say John has an `acrobatics` score of 11. Lets also say John has the flavor `leg wound` from a fight he got into recently. This would make the check hard, so john would be rolling 3d6 against his 11 in `acrobatics`. Lets say John gets a sum of 10 on the dice. This means John was able to successfully do a backflip despite his `leg wound`.

#### Contests
For contests like arm wrestling, racing, or anything else where two known values are being compared (both character's skill values are known so dice aren't needed) just have each roll a check as normal. Do this until one character fail's a check. If neither character can fail the check the stroyteller decides what happens.