As a [[Storyteller]], you should fill out a [[World Sheet]] with values of your choice. Defaults are listed here:
- [[Experience Tracker|Group Experience]] of 40, want enough for 2 in each attribute, a couple skills level 3-5, and maybe some speed/wealth
- [[Default Delay]] of 10, lower numbers increase speed differentials, higher numbers decrease them, warning on low number with high experience
- [[Available Skills]] appropriate to your setting, possibly generated by the [[Player|Players]]
- Add [[Items]] to the [[Store]] and give them [[Prices]], possibly generated by players
- initiate [[New Content Negotiation]] and ask your players what they want in the game
- whatever [[Limits]] you feel comfortable with for the combination of setting, story, and players
- choose a [[Currency]], this is probably the least important decision.
- consider adding some stuff but players will probably make most of the [[Background|Backgrounds]]
- feature flags
	- I have a bunch of weird systems in Tabula. Not every game should use all of them. Sometimes I have made more than one for the same purpose and you just have to choose between them. The setting doc should include a list of subsystems with checkboxes for which ones are going to be used. There should be an option for "other" most of the time. All of my systems will be included.
	- I think turning things off is potentially fine but there will be no duplicate systems to choose between. I think I should probably just reject this. Yeah, this is better handled with a note to the storyteller telling them you can and should ignore subsystems you don't like. as such I think this is a tangential bit of setting creation

---

this should be a how to, with with defaults for a low to the ground game. it should go into a fair bit of detail for how to make each part. I have tried to add a bullet point for each thing I want to discuss.

this is for the [[Storyteller]] to do and as such the [[Getting Started as a Storyteller]] page should link here.

---

typical value for setting delay is 10

---

If you start in a town with a description of the surrounding countryside, does the setting grow or do you need a new setting? what happens when you planeswalk?

from store
Going to _a_ store within the story rather than _the_ store will drastically affect what is available for sale and maybe even what it is legal to trade. [[Domain]] litmus? if the store changes you need a new setting doc.

---

taken from [[Tick]]
Typically ticks are about a second long but for large scale scenes ticks might be days or even weeks.

---

parts list
- [[Available Backgrounds]]
- [[Available Skills]]
- [[Money]]
- [[Default Delay]]
- [[Domain]]
- [[Experience Tracker]]
- [[Limits]]
- [[Store]]
- [[Soft Worldbuilding]]