A night of role playing usually lasts anywhere from two to six hours and includes a variety of scenes: Exhilarating chases, nail-biting espionage, terrifying battles, grand speeches, descriptions of exotic lands, and, of course, joking around in and out of character are all hallmarks of good roleplaying.

One player will need to be the storyteller. The storyteller is largely responsible for running the game. A storyteller's responsibilities include setting up scenes between characters, planning and narrating events that drive the story, roleplaying NPCs, setting check difficulties, and managing the setting. Once a storyteller is chosen they should go take a look at the [setting](https://github.com/harleydutton/Tabula-Rasa/blob/develop/tabula-rasa.md#setting) section and either create or find a setting for their story.

Everyone else will be a player. Players should go straight to the [character creation](https://github.com/harleydutton/Tabula-Rasa/blob/develop/tabula-rasa.md#character-creation) section and begin creating characters using the setting provided by the storyteller. Once a player has a character, they will provide voice acting, motivations, and personality for the character in addition to controlling their actions in the story.

Most good stories include conflict. Once you have a storyteller, a setting, a story, and a character for each player you will need to know how to resolve conflicts. Conflicts are usually between characters and when they arise they can be resolved by rolling [checks](https://github.com/harleydutton/Tabula-Rasa/blob/develop/tabula-rasa.md#check). Everyone should make sure they understand how checks work.