[[flavor comment]]

Flavor is a mechanic in Tabula used to describe the interesting parts of a character. Almost anything unique that a character _is_ or _has_ is likely to be flavor. Flavor is used primarily for DTMS (does this make sense) checks and modifying the difficulty on checks. Flavor cannot refer to any part of the system, including AD, skills, or attributes. A few examples of flavor might be `armor`, `horse`, `landed noble`, `flaming sword`, `elf`, `big and tall`, etc. for an elvish knight of the summer court. Each piece of flavor should be a short, evocative description.

Flavor is a word or short phrase describing your character. While you could say your character has clothes and the ability to speak, let’s not worry about that and instead focus on the things that spice your character up! Flavor can include knowledge, possessions, physique, and even social position. Most flavor costs one CP at character creation or one hook for those which are particularly powerful. More flavor can be obtained or inflicted later on in the game.

Flavor is a word or short (two-word) phrase describing your character and it is how you give your character personality and make them unique. While you could say your character has clothes and the ability to speak, let's not worry about that and instead focus on the things that spice your character up! You aren’t just a rebel with a cause, you’re a smokin’ hot rebel with a cause.

Flavor can include knowledge, possessions, physique, and even social position. Flavor costs one [character point](#_o3tr0ykifwm1) (CP) at character creation and can be obtained later in the game at storyteller discretion. The storyteller can inflict flavor upon characters during the story. When resolving a conflict using a check, flavor can sometimes modify the roll making it more or less likely that you succeed. This should not be a piece of flavor’s only purpose.

Third, your character needs [flavor](#flavor). Flavor is a word or short phrase describing a character. It can include knowledge, possessions, physique, and even social position. Review the starting flavor options listed on the setting. This will almost always give your character a language, clothes, and equipment relevant for the setting. When the setting specifies a type of flavor but not what it is specifically you get to choose something that would fit within the setting. Add your choice of starting flavor to your character sheet. Afterward, add flavor to your character to describe them. Flavor costs one character point per after you have your starting flavor. Flavor is usually just that, flavor, but occasionally it can make checks easier or harder.