
### flavor
IIRC flavor was short descriptive words or phrases that would give +1 or -1 in situations in which they applied. Ciazio stacked "strong" worded a few different ways and had a +4. balance this.
"flavor" is a short description of anything a character knows, owns, has or is (including reputation, status, and position). these should be the videogame equivalent of passives rather than actives. they can modify checks by a small value but they are not check themselves.
flavor is anything a character is or has: physical attributes (horns, fins, cybernetic implants), magical, social, mental, or a material possessions.
flavor should not have numbers attached to it.
flavor can be acquired at CC and either purchased with exp or acquired through roleplaying.
Duplicate flavor should not stack for determining modifiers for checks. Unique flavors should. (strong, buff, muscley = +1 vs big, strong = +2 to a strength check or something)
At one point i had something named traits/passive abilities/backgrounds. these were very, very similar to flavor. they cannot be leveled up and they cannot be taught. those two restrictions were important for defining what was and was not a trait and it could be useful for defining flavor.
here is a list of example flavor:
Examples: These are some examples of flavor. Some are normal, some are special, some are bad. Captain of the guard. Beautiful singing voice. Strong. Wise. Recognizable facial scar. Pathological liar. Sociopath. Owns a horse. Is liked by horses. Centaur. Gambling problem. Charming. Attractive. Fast. Knowledgeable. Lord of a castle. Friends in high places. Rich. Night vision. Night vision goggles. Owns a spaceship. Carries a spear and club. Leper. Reputation for beating priests. Kind. King’s advisor. Drug dealer. Librarian. Has many rare books. Orc. Insane. Insomniac. Carnivorous. Extra limbs. Amputee. Crippled. Talks to plants. Plants talk to me. Holy. Incorporeal. Haunted by past crimes. Haunted by angry ghosts. Has a compass. Stubborn. Magically adept. Bloodthirsty. Good manners. Boxing world champion. Dropped out of medical school. Cult leader. Shift manager at a fast food joint. Famous space pirate. Infertile. Has many decks of cards. Knows Spanish. Is Spanish. Can play the flute. Religious. Sneaky. Large. Fat. Boring. Knows the location of buried treasure. Student at Yale. Responsible for a princeling. Young and stupid. Evil. Charitable. 