#### information in roleplaying
there are a few kinds of info: info freely given to the players by the DM so they can play the game, info the DM hasn't thought about explicitly, and info the DM has thought about that must be earned with a check, and meta info like "that character got a name and a description: must be important".
stealth and lying are both methods characters use to conceal information from other characters.
Should we talk about passive perception values and whatnot? yeah that is a relevant discussion for attributes.
Notably, I classify “lying” as an information hiding skill, similar to “sneaking”, rather than as a persuasion skill.
this is all relevant for determining what rolls mean.
lying: first off you can't detect lying. you can detect if someone is uncomfortable or nervous or whatever and this can tip you off. flesh this bit out while reading Joe Navarro's body language manual. lying definitely cannot be used to convince another character of something but it can be used to convince them that you believe that thing. if you say the sky is red they wont believe you because they can just look up but if you are convincing they might believe you believe that. convincing someone of something that is false is a good time for a nested roll actually. one for the lie. one for the convincing.
i suppose there should be a lying differentiation section. if a character is lying to hide information that information it will be treated much like stealth. if you are attempting to convince a character of something that isn't true then just do a persuasion check modified by the plausibility of the lie. 
stealth: i am basing this bit on stealth games i have played. if you fail a stealth check you arent detected (except maybe on a crit). instead you do something that puts the "seekers" on alert and they start looking for you. if they pass their relevant observation checks THEN you get detected. If you pass your stealth check and the seekers start looking for you anyway then you can be detected if you are detectable. IF you are undetectable you cannot be detected but you can alert the seekers that you are there.
perception: if you go looking for something and you pass the check you find it IF it is there. if you fail the check you get no information either way. you just can't tell. this goes for spot checks, detecting intention in social situations, and searching for something.